Let's take a closer look at some concepts related to AWS CodeDeploy.
Some of the first concepts we'll need to understand are that
of an application and a compute platform.
The application is the larger container for all of the configuration
that we use when we're working with CodeDeploy.
And the compute platform, like we discussed earlier,
is either something like EC2, AWS Lambda or the Amazon ECS service or
even on‑premises servers that we're deploying to.
Now there's some other concepts we need to understand
around deployment configuration.
The first one is deployment rules.
These will help determine the success or failure
conditions of our deployments, for example,
if we run tests to determine whether or not something has successfully
deployed. We also have different kinds of deployment types.
Now these could fall into different categories like an all at once
deployment or a blue/green deployment, where all at once would simply
change the traffic over on the same set of servers,
immediately flipping it over to a new application, whereas a blue/green
deployment would change the traffic between one set of infrastructure
that's running the application to another set of infrastructure and then
eventually retire the original.
We also need to understand the concept of deployment groups,
and these vary by the compute platform.
But they could also be something like on‑premises instances, or if we're
working with Lambda, different lambda function versions.
Finally, they could also be things like ECS tasks,
basically what we're targeting for our deployment and what's
going to be running our code and eventually be switched
between from one version to another.
In addition to the compute platform,
we also need to understand there's other configuration here,
too.
We might configure different rollbacks,
depending on if something fails in our deployment or different triggers
to trigger things in our deployment, as well as alarms, where we might
have a notification when something goes correctly or incorrectly and
then be notified of it usually through something like an Amazon Simple
Notification Service topic.
In addition to deployment groups,
there's also the concept of revisions, and revisions change a little bit
depending on the compute platform you're working with. With AWS Lambda,
revisions are really just the AppSpec file,
which we'll take a closer look at in a little bit. With Amazon
ECS, they're also just the AppSpec file; however,
with EC2 or on‑premises deployments, they're an archive with all
the code you're deploying, as well as the AppSpec file so that
you know how to proceed with the deployment of the code you're
shipping to that service.
Now let's look at two more concepts related to CodeDeploy.
The first is repositories, and these can be things like Amazon S3 buckets,
GitHub repositories, or Bitbucket repositories.
And each of these allows us to have the source for the code
that we're deploying into our application.
So if we're moving code from GitHub,
it could go into something like EC2, ECS, or Lambda.
Now, in addition to repositories,
we have to think about the permissions that are applied to
everything in our CodeDeploy services.
We could have the service role first,
which is the role that's used by the CodeDeploy service
itself to deploy our applications.
And this would need permissions depending on the
different platforms that we're working with.
So if we are deploying our code to EC2, it would need
permissions to act on EC2 and related services.
But if we're deploying to AWS Lambda, it might need permissions
to act on AWS Lambda and its related services.
In addition to the service role,
there's also something called an IAM instance profile.
This will typically be used by EC2 instances to
access where applications are stored.
So if the EC2 instance needs to get information from Amazon S3, for example,
it might need an instance profile to give it those permissions.
But in addition to these two concepts,
there are other IAM roles and policies that will come into play when
deploying our applications when we're working in AWS.
And these will determine how EC2 and any other services get additional AWS
permissions such as to interact with the Amazon S3 service or the Simple
Queue Service or Simple Notification Service or any other AWS service that
our applications need to access.
So be aware of these different concepts when you're
permissioning things with CodeDeploy, and we'll look at some of them when we work in the demos for CodeDeploy.